Dev-ExerciseSetup (#2)
t4d-gmbh/Weekend-Out: README_solutions.md

Solution: The repository is clean, and you are on the `feature/blankets` branch.

Play around with the log command to see the commit history in different formats.
Check the man page for an overview of the available options. Some examples are:

```bash
git log --oneline --graph
git log --oneline --author="Alice"
git log --oneline --since="2 days ago"
```

- What information is displayed for each commit?
Solution: The commit hash, the commit message, and the author.

- What is the commit hash and what is its purpose?
Solution: The commit hash is a unique identifier for each commit. It is used to reference commits in Git commands.

- What's the difference between `git log` and `git reflog`?
Solution: `git log` shows the commit history of the current branch including merges and commits which are not part of the current branch history (e.g. commits from other branches). It is useful for tracking changes in the repository over time. On the other hand, `git reflog` shows the history of HEAD movements. This includes branch checkouts, commits, and merges and is useful for recovering lost commits.

Push the branch to the remote repository.

```bash

> git push origin feature/blankets

Reviewer: You will need the to set the upstream for a new local branch when you first push it:

`git push --set-upstream origin feature/blankets` or just `git push -u origin feature/blankets`

_note:_ Once the branch has a remote branch it tracks, you can simply use `git push`

Author: I think this situation will not occur in this exercise, because the repo has been cloned from a remote. Should we add a note to explain a situation where this could happen? IMHO, this could be regarded as "advanced" and does not need to be part of this introductory exercise. And also, Git usually tells you when to manually set the upstream (at least that's what I experienced).

```

- What does the `origin` refer to in the `git push` command? Hint: `git remote -v`.
Solution: `origin` is the default name for the remote repository. It is a shorthand for the URL of the remote repository. You can have multiple remotes with different names. The `-v` flag shows the URLs of the remotes.

- What would be the result of the `git push` command if you didn't specify the branch name?

> Solution: The default behavior of `git push` is to push the current branch to the remote repository. If you don't specify the branch name, Git will push the current branch to the remote repository.

Reviewer: This is true, but only once you have set the upstream branch name (i.e. the `-u` push).

Author: see my comment above.

Author: ```suggestion
Solution: The default behavior of `git push` is to push the current branch to the remote repository. If you don't specify the branch name, Git will push the current branch to the remote repository. Think of a situation where you need to explicitly state the name of the remote and why this situation might be useful.
```

I am thinking of multiple remotes in case 
a) the repo is on a private/enterprise git server and also on a public GitHub or 
b) if a public repo has been cloned but you want the changes that you make not being public (forked public repos can't be made private) but still want to integrate the most recent changes from the public repo into your private one.

- In which cases would it be useful to have multiple remote repositories?
Solution: Having multiple remotes can be useful when working with different teams or repositories. For example, you might have a remote repository for your team's work (e.g. on a private enterprise server) and another remote repository for open-source contributions (e.g. on a public platform like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket). You can push and pull changes from different remotes depending on the context.

## 2. Add Items on the main branch on the remote repository

Make changes in the `packing_list.md` file on the main branch on the remote repository directly in the browser.

Go to the repository on the remote server and open the `packing_list.md` file. Add some items and commit the changes.

## 3. Merge the Feature Branch into the Main Branch Locally

You want to include the additional items from the main branch in your feature branch. To do this, you need to merge the `feature/blankets` branch into the main branch.

On your local machine, switch to the main branch and pull the latest changes from the remote repository.

```bash
git checkout main

> git pull origin main

Reviewer: `git pull origin main  or simply `git pull`

```

Before you continue, think about the following questions:
- What is the purpose of the `git pull` command?
Solution: The `git pull` command fetches changes from the remote repository and merges them into the current branch. It is a combination of `git fetch` and `git merge`.

- What is the difference between `git pull` and `git fetch`?
Solution: `git pull` fetches changes from the remote repository and merges them into the current branch. It is a combination of `git fetch` and `git merge`. On the other hand, `git fetch` only fetches changes from the remote repository without merging them. It is useful for checking for updates without affecting your local branch.

- What would happen if you tried to push changes to a branch that has new commits on the remote repository? Try it out!

> Solution: If you try to push changes to a branch that has new commits on the remote repository, Git will reject the push and ask you to pull the changes first. This is because the remote branch has new commits that are not in your local branch, and Git wants you to merge them before pushing your changes.

Reviewer: > and Git wants you to merge them before pushing your changes.

We can leave it as is, or write something like:

and Git wants you to first locally merge your changes and verify that the resulting state is healthy, before it is pushed to the remote. (Remember: The goal is to always keep a healthy reference)

- What is the difference between `git pull origin main` and `git pull`?
Solution: `git pull origin main` fetches changes from the remote repository (origin) and merges them into the current branch (main). It is useful when you want to pull changes from a specific branch on the remote repository. On the other hand, `git pull` fetches changes from the remote repository and merges them into the current branch. It is a shorthand for `git pull origin <current-branch>`.

Merge the `feature/blankets` branch into the main branch.

```bash
git merge feature/blankets
```

- How could you prevent a merge commit from being created when merging branches? Why would you want to do that?

> Solution: You can prevent a merge commit from being created when merging branches by using the `--no-ff` flag with the `git merge` command. This flag forces Git to create a merge commit even if it could perform a fast-forward merge. You might want to do this to preserve the history of the branches and show that a merge occurred.

Reviewer: Hm...in case you meant to say: _"You can prevent a merge commit from being created when merging branches by using the ~`--no-ff`~ `--rebase` flag..._" I agree with you. :wink: 

- Avoid creating a merge commit: rebase instead of merge (see e.g. https://stackoverflow.com/a/30054231/1622937)
  so: `git pull --rebase`
- Always enforce a merge commit: add `--no-ff` option for `git pull/merge`.
  This is a bit trickier as 'pull/merge' can be done with `rebase` or with `--no-rebase` (i.e. `merge`). However the `--ff`/`-`-`--no-ff` only applie to the `merge` option which, by default, assumes `--ff` resolving a merge by simply fast-forwarding the branch pointer if possible, thus not creating any trace of an actual merge. To make sure that the history always shows a merge the `--no-ff` flag is needed.

One question might be to ask why one would always want to point out merge events even if a fast-forward would also be possible (solution: keep track of the feature branches in the feature branch approach)

Author: Ok, this turns out to be more complex than I initially thought it would be ^^

```suggestion
Solution: By default, `git merge` performs a fast-forward merge if possible which is equal to `git merge --ff`. This means that if the branch being merged is directly ahead of the current branch, Git will simply move the branch pointer forward to the latest commit, avoiding the creation of a merge commit. For example, if your current branch is `main` and you want to merge `feature/blankets`: `git merge feature/blankets` if `main` can be fast-forwarded to include all commits from `feature/blankets`, Git will do so without creating a merge commit. If there are divergent commit on both branches, Git will create a merge commit to combine the histories.
Non-default merge scenarios could be:
- *Merge with no fast-forward*: You want to ensure a merge commit is always created, even if a fast-forward merge is possible: `git merge --no-ff feature/blankets`. Git creates a merge commit to preserve the context of the feature branch. This can be useful for maintaining a clear project history, where each feature or bug fix is encapsulated in its own branch and merge commit, e.g., a merge commit clearly indicates that a feature or bug fix branch was integrated into the main branch. This helps in understanding the development history and the context of changes.
- *Rebase before merge*: Remember that `git pull` first fetches the lates changes from the remote with `git fetch` and then either calls `git merge` to fast-forward ahead of the current branch or rebases your current branch of top of those changes. You want to rebase your current branch on top of the branch you are merging from to maintain a linear history: `git pull --rebase`
Note: Read the manuals of `git merge` and `git pull` to understand how different arguments affect each other.
```

- What would have been the result if you had merged the main branch into the `feature/blankets` branch instead?

> Solution: If you had merged the main branch into the `feature/blankets` branch instead, the changes from the main branch would have been applied to the `feature/blankets` branch. This would have included the items added on the main branch in the `feature/blankets` branch.

Reviewer: One thing that is crucial to point out here is that the resulting state would have been the same! (assuming no `ours/theirs` options were set in the merge - probably better just forget about that).
What is different: Which pointer is moved forward ('main' or 'feature/blankets') and (this too we might just better do not mention) the relative history, i.e. what commit you get when you write `<merge commit sha>^1`)
(another nice so answer: https://stackoverflow.com/a/12198219/1622937)
